# Upgrading notes

## Upgrading from 4.x to 5.x

> **Attention**: Due to the deprecation of some scopes in the Google Photos API, this is the only version which works
> with Google Photos. **Previous versions will not work anymore.**

### Configuration settings

- `Album: auto:folderName` and `Album: auto:folderPath` options have been **removed**. Use the
  `Album: template:%_directory%` and `Album: template:%_folderpath%` options instead.
- `Jobs: CreateAlbums` option has been **removed**. Use the `Jobs: Album` option instead.
- Read
  the [configuration documentation](https://gphotosuploader.github.io/gphotos-uploader-cli/#/configuration?id=album) for
  more information.

## Upgrading from 3.x to 4.x

### Data folders

There are some changes inside
the [configuration folder](https://gphotosuploader.github.io/gphotos-uploader-cli/#/getting-started?id=configure) (
usually `~/.gphotos-uploader-cli`):

- The folder `uploads.db` **MUST be renamed** to `uploaded_files`.
- The folder `resumable_uploads.db` **MUST be renamed** to `ongoing_uploads`.
- The token files, named as email address, **MUST be moved** under the `tokens` folder.

The content of the configuration folder (e.g `~/.gphotos-uploader-cli`) should be:

```
-rw-------  config.hjson
drwx------  ongoing_uploads
drwx------  tokens
drwx------  uploaded_files
```

> **ATTENTION**: If you don't follow the process above, all the information regarding the previous version will not be
> kept.

### Jobs definition

The `CreateAlbums` configuration option **has been deprecated** in favor of `Album`.

The `Album` configuration option set the album's name where the objects will be uploaded.

If the `Album` option is not set, the objects will not be associated with an album in Google Photos.

These are the valid values: `name:`, and `auto:`.

- `name:` Followed by the album name in Google Photos (album names are not unique, so the first to match will be
  selected). ex. `Album: name:fooBar`
- `auto:` Followed either `folderPath` or `folderName` will use an autogenerated album name based on the object's folder
  path or object's folder name. ex. `Album: auto:folderPath`

## Upgrading from 2.x to 3.x

### Configuration settings

- `Jobs.Account` configuration setting has been changed to `Account`.
  See [configuration documentation](https://gphotosuploader.github.io/gphotos-uploader-cli/#/configuration).
- `Jobs.MakeAlbums` configuration setting has changed to `Jobs.CreateAlbums`.
  See [configuration documentation](https://gphotosuploader.github.io/gphotos-uploader-cli/#/configuration?id=createalbums).
- **Multiple Google Photos account support has been removed**. You can use multiple configuration files in the same
  application folder instead.

## Upgrading from 1.x to 2.x

### Patterns definition

The `includePatterns` and `excludePatterns` configuration options has changed,
see [configuration documentation](https://gphotosuploader.github.io/gphotos-uploader-cli/#/configuration). You should
modify your configuration to honor the **new format**.

If you were using the tagged patterns (`_ALL_FILES_` and `_ALL_VIDEO_FILES_`) you don't need to do anything.

```bash
sourceFolder
`-- foo
    |-- picture1.png
    |-- picture2.png
    `-- bar
        |-- picture1.png
        |-- picture2.png
```

#### Some examples

| Description                       | Current format                  | Previous format                                              |
|-----------------------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| Include all files                 | `includePatterns: "**"}`        | `includePatterns: {"*"}`                                     |
| Include only PNG files            | `includePatterns: "**/*.png"}`  | `includePatterns: {"*.png"}`                                 |
| Include PNG files in `foo` folder | `includePatterns: "foo/*.png"}` | `includePatterns: {"*.png"}` <br> `excludePatterns: {"bar"}` |
 
